Miscreants, outcasts, strangers. Rebels, mercenaries, and vigilantes. Vagabonds have always been a part of the Woodland. Those who weren’t safe enough, accepted enough, or satisfied enough to settle down in a clearing. Those who didn’t, couldn’t, or wouldn’t commit themselves to any particular faction. Those who were capable, skilled, and morally flexible. 

“Vagabond” is an all-encompassing term for this kind of denizen, an individual who moves around from clearing to clearing, taking on odd, dangerous jobs, and likely causing trouble wherever they go. A vagabond is usually highly skilled compared to the average denizen—you don’t survive for long in the lifestyle unless you’re skilled or protected by another skilled vagabond. And they usually have a certain moral flexibility, a willingness to perform jobs for different, opposing factions, or to perform jobs that other denizens might find distasteful. 

In particular, there is one act that sets all vagabonds apart from the rest of the Woodland: vagabonds are willing to travel through the forests. More impressive still, vagabonds are capable of accomplishing this feat with a fair chance of surviving. Most other denizens know better; they stick to the paths or clearings, the safe spaces, the places where authorities and guards are around to deal with bandits or bears or other threats. But the vagabonds, they’ll cut through deep, thick forests, potentially traveling faster than any path-bound force. If the pay is right, they’ll gladly troop into forests to root out bandits, or find their way to ancient ruins in search of relics and treasure. 

The capabilities of vagabonds are the source of their value. The Marquisate, the Eyrie Dynasties, and the Woodland Alliance all have plenty of work for vagabonds to take on. A vagabond is most likely a match for any one soldier from any faction, and many vagabonds are capable of contending with entire squads. Vagabond tinkers can create devices and equipment that no normal smith would even conceive of; vagabond vagrants can infiltrate dangerous spaces with lies and tricks no other denizen would be brave (or mad) enough to try; vagabond rangers can move a band through forests with a speed no other force can match. Vagabonds may be dire troublemakers, but they’re so useful that most factions have a base level of tolerance for their nonsense. 

Vagabonds don’t tend to travel in groups. They’re inherently loners, driven by their own quirks or desires to be apart from the rest of Woodland society. They’ll often meet one another through their travels, however, coming to know each other’s names and natures. They might even work together, when the job is tough and the reward is enough. 

If a band of vagabonds were to arise, capable of sticking together, willing to help each other out and overcome challenges collectively…they could be a force to respect and fear. There are stories of such vagabond bands in the Woodland’s myths, though it’s hard to determine if any such tales are more than fable. But the alleged deeds of prior vagabond bands range from rescuing princes to defeating tyrants and freeing subjugated denizens. 

A whole band of vagabonds, shoring up each other’s weaknesses and supporting each other’s strengths, has the potential to tip the scale on the larger conflict between the factions…